260 Aspec Reporter (#261)
itsallcode/openfasttrace: doc/user_guide.md

|--------|-------------------|
| ?      | Duplicate         |

> ## XML tracing report

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## XML Tracing Report
```

We use "Associated Press" style head capitalization (https://headlinecapitalization.com/).

Author: DONE

> Often projects want to further process the results generated by OpenFastTrace to create statistics about requirements, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often users want to further process the results generated by OpenFastTrace to create statistics about requirements, 
```

to add the results to a database or further analyze the results. OpenFastTrace therefore provides a reporter that
exports all relevant collected into a single XML file that can further be processed by other tools.

> The XML exporter is called `aspec` reporter. An `aspec` report can be generated by calling OpenFastTrace in the 

Reviewer 2: Is `aspec` an abbreviation? Maybe you can add a short explanation for the name ;)

Author: DONE

can be generated  by calling OpenFastTrace in the following way:

>     $ java -jar openfasttrace.jar trace -o aspac -f requirements.xml requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
java -jar openfasttrace.jar trace -o aspac -f requirements.xml requirements
```
```

OpenFastTrace needs to be executed  with the command `trace` to activate the reporter. The `aspec` report is selected 
with that parameter `-o aspec`. `-f` allows to provide the name of the output file into which the XML report is 
generated.

> The `aspec` reporter generates an entry per processed requirement reporting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `aspec` reporter generates an entry per processed requirement:
```

* all relevant parameters of the requirement
* information if a requirement is successfully covered by other requirements

> * information if all requirements covering a requirement are itself successfully covered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* information if all requirements covering a requirement are themselves successfully covered
```

* list of requirements covering a requirement
* list of requirements linked by a requirement

The XML output roughly has the following structure

>     <specdocument>
>         <specobjects doctype="arch">
>             <specobject>
>                 <id>arch-my-architecture-requirement</id>
>                 ...
>             </specobject>
>             ...
>         </specobjects>
>         ...
>     </specdocument>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```xml
<specdocument>
    <specobjects doctype="arch">
        <specobject>
            <id>arch-my-architecture-requirement</id>
            ...
        </specobject>
        ...
    </specobjects>
    ...
</specdocument>
```
```

Reviewer: Also please for all other XML segments.

Note that the closing "```" is missing in the suggestion because GitHub does not support this.

`<specdocument>` is the toplevel XML element. Beneath the `<specdocument>` one `<specobjects>` entry can be found for 

> each requirement type found by OpenFastTrace. Beneath `<specobjects>` all requirements  matching the type named in
> `<specobjects>` can be found. Each requirement is wrapped into a `<specobject>` XML tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
each requirement type found by OpenFastTrace. The element `<specobjects>` contains all requirements  matching the type named in
`<specobjects>`. A `<specobject>` XML tag wraps each requirement.
```

A `<specobject>` entry has the following form:

    <specobject>
        <id>arch-my-architecture-requirement</id>
        <version>1</version>
        <shortdesc>The title</shortdesc>
        <status>approved</status>
        <sourcefile>architecture.md</sourcefile>
        <sourceline>134</sourceline>
        <description>Yet another architecture</description>
        <coverage>
            ...
        </coverage>
        <covering>
            ...
        </covering>
        <dependencies>
            ...
        </dependencies>
    </specobject>

`<id>` and` <version>` provide ID and version of the requirement. `<shortdesc>` and `<description>` provide title and
description of the requirement. `<sourcefile>` and `<sourceline>` provide name and line number of the original file from
which the requirement has been imported. `<coverage>` provides more information about the coverage of the requirement
and lists other requirements covering the requirement. `<covering>` provides requirements that have been marked as 

> dependency. If parts of the information describe above is not available the corresponding XML element will be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dependency. If parts of the information described above is not available the corresponding XML element will be
```

> description of the requirement. `<sourcefile>` and `<sourceline>` provide name and line number of the original file from
> which the requirement has been imported. `<coverage>` provides more information about the coverage of the requirement
> and lists other requirements covering the requirement. `<covering>` provides requirements that have been marked as 
> dependency. If parts of the information described above is not available the corresponding XML element will be
> generated missing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description of the requirement. `<sourcefile>` and `<sourceline>` are the name and line number of the original file from
which the requirement has been imported. `<coverage>` contains more information about the coverage of the requirement
and lists other requirements covering the requirement.

`<covering>` contains requirements that have been marked as dependency. If parts of the information described above is not available the corresponding XML element is omitted in the generated report.
```

The `<coverage>` XML element has the following form:

    <coverage>
        <needscoverage>
            <needsobj>dsn</needsobj>
            ...
        </needscoverage>
        <shallowCoverageStatus>COVERED</shallowCoverageStatus>

>         <<transitiveCoverageStatus>UNCOVERED</transitiveCoverageStatus>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <transitiveCoverageStatus>UNCOVERED</transitiveCoverageStatus>
```

        <coveringSpecObjects>
            ...
        </coveringSpecObjects>
        <coveredTypes>
            <coveredType>dsn</coveredType>
        </coveredType>
        <uncoveredTypes>
            <uncoveredType>impl</uncoveredType>
        </uncoveredTypes>
    </coverage>

> The ` coverage` elements provides the following subelements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `coverage` elements provides the following subelements:
```

    </coveringSpecObjects>

The element `coveringSpecObjects` describes each requirement that provides a coverage to the enclosing requirement. Each
covering requirement is described via the element `coveringSpecObject`. `<id>` and `<version>` provide the requirement
ID and version of the requirement. `doctype` provides the requirement type of the requirement. ` ownCoverageStatus`
describes if the covering requirement is shallow covered. A shallow covered requirement is report by the value `COVERED`.
An uncovered requirement is reported by the value `UNCOVERED`. `transitiveCoverageStatus>` reports a transitive
covered requirement with value `COVERED` and an uncovered requirement with value `UNCOVERED`. If the covering
requirement itself transitively successfully covers the enclosing requirement `coveringStatus` reports the value `COVERING`.
If the covering requirement does not cover the enclosing requirement `coveringStatus` reports `UNCOVERED`. If the
covering requirement references the onclosing requirement with a wrong version `coveringStatus` reports 
`COVERING_WRONG_VERSION`. If the covering requirement is not expected to cover the enclosing requirement (e.g. it has

> a not expected requirement type) the `coveringStatus` is reported as `UNEXPECTED`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
an unexpected requirement type) the `coveringStatus` is reported as `UNEXPECTED`.
```

Often projects want to further process the results generated by OpenFastTrace to create statistics about requirements, 
to add the results to a database or further analyze the results. OpenFastTrace therefore provides a reporter that
exports all relevant collected information into a single XML file that can further be processed by other tools.

> The XML exporter is called `aspec` reporter. `aspec` in this case means augmented specobject. An `aspec` report 

Reviewer 2: 👍 Thanks for the explanation :)

Author: :-)
